# Convex Set Projection
The orthogonal projection onto various convex sets.

[TOC]

## Circulant Matrix
Project into tyhe closest Circulant Matrix set given by $\mathcal{C}_{n}$:

$$ \arg \min_{X \in \mathcal{C}_{n}} \frac{1}{2} {\left\| X - Y \right\|}_{F} $$

See my solutions at [Projection onto the Set of Circulant Matrices](https://math.stackexchange.com/questions/2778195).  

**MATLAB Note**  
If `mF` is the DFT Matrix ($ F : \mathbb{R}^{n} \to \mathbb{R}^{n} $) and `mF'` is the Inverse DFT Matrix then:

 *  Multiplication from Left - `mF * mY` is equivalent to `fft(mY, [], 1)`.  
    Namely applying DFT on the columns of `mY`.  
    This also holds for inverse DFT, namely `mF' * mY` is equivalent of `ifft(mY, [], 1)`.
 *  Multiplication from Right - `mY * mF` is equivalent to `fft(mY, [], 2)`.  
    Namely applying DFT on the rows of `mY`.  
    This also holds for inverse DFT, namely `mY * mF'` is equivalent of `ifft(mY, [], 2)`.
 *  Compositions - `mF * mY * mF'` is equivalent of `ifft(fft(mY, [], 1), [], 2)` and `mF' * mY * mF` is equivalent of `fft(ifft(mY, [], 1), [], 2)`.  
    The order could be switched (Doing first the left operator then the right).
 *  Pay attention that in MATLAB `fft()` isn't normalized by `sqrt(n)` and `ifft()` is normalized by `n`.  
    Hence the compositions above will work yet the first 2 points will require normalization.

If $ F : \mathbb{R}^{n} \to \mathbb{R}^{m} $ where $ m > n $ (Like zero padding) then:

 *	Multiplication from Left - `mF * mY` is equivalent to `fft(mY, m, 1)`.  
    Namely applying DFT on the columns of `mY` with *zero padding*.  
 *	Multiplication from Right - `mY * mF` is equivalent to `fft(mY, m, 2)`.  
    Namely applying DFT on the rows of `mY` with *zero padding*.  
 *	Multiplication from Left by the Inverse DFT Matrix - `mF' * mY` is equivalent to `mX = ifft(mY, [], 1); mX(1:n, :)`.  
    Namely applying Inverse DFT on the columns of `mY` and taking only the first `n` samples.  
 *	Multiplication from Right by the Inverse DFT Matrix - `mY * mF` is equivalent to `mX = ifft(mY, [], 2); mX(:, 1:n)`.  
    Namely applying Inverse DFT on the rows of `mY` and taking only the first `n` samples.
 *	Composition of the DFT Matrix - `mF * mY * mF'` is equivalent of `ifft(fft(mY, m, 1), m, 2)`.  
 	In this case one could use the Normalized DFT Matrix.
 *	Composition of the Inverse DFT Matrix (The Matrix `mF`, $ F : \mathbb{R}^{m} \to \mathbb{R}^{n} $, is the Inverse DFT Matrix) - `mA = mF * mY * mF'` is equivalent of `mA = ifft(mY, [], 1); mA = fft(mA(1:n, :), [], 2) / m; mA = mA(:, 1:n);`.  
 	In this case the Inverse DFT Matrix is generated by `mF = exp(((2i * pi) / m) * [0:(n - 1)].' * [0:(m - 1)]) / m; %<! Inverse DFT Matrix`.

## TO DO List
 *  Semi Positive Definite Matrix.
 *  Solution Set of a Linear System of equations.
